hello everyone in today's After Effects
scripting tutorial I'm going to show you
how to make a useful custom workflow
script you can use this to help speed up
your or someone else's workflow now I
made a previous tutorial that showed how
to make a script that does batch
processing which is kind of similar but
this script is using custom images and
such to have a custom workflow for
ourselves so if we take a look our first
two buttons are going to fade in and out
the selected video the second two are
going to fade in the selected audio this
button will remove all keyframes of all
the selected layers this will remove all
the expressions this will remove all the
effects and this will reset our
transform values like the position and
such like that so if we go ahead and
select a few layers here I'm gonna bring
up the opacity and go ahead and fade
these in as you can see it fades them in
by a second and I can also fade these
out and just like that we've added fades
to all of our layers that we've selected
in just a few clicks now if we go ahead
and say grab this layer here and grab
the audio levels what we can do is fade
those in and out as well and this will
make it easy to fade in and out audio or
transition in between Clips now let's
say I apply some effects to this leaf
footage here and just add a couple here
if we go ahead and click on the remove
effects button it's going to remove our
FX for us let's go ahead and take a look
at the keyframes and expression deletion
tools so if I grab my position I'll just
say wiggle three times a second and like
25 pixels and then for my scale I'm
going to just scale it up over time here
to about 150 so now we have our footage
scaling up as time goes on as well as
the position being wiggled to add some
camera shake so let's say we wanted to
get rid of these and start from scratch
so I'm gonna go ahead and select some
layers here and click on the remove or
delete keyframes button and as you can
see it instantly removes all of our
keyframes for us now if we want to get
rid of our expression on our position
here we'll select the layer and click
remove expression and just like that
we've set everything back to regular our
opacity is set to zero and some of our
levels are a little off so what we can
do is select all of our layers and click
on the reset transform values and that
will change all of our transform values
like opacity scale and position back to
their original values all right so
that's the basic way this script is
going to be working let's go ahead and
get started by opening a new extend
script file this is what we're going to
be coding today it's about 221 lines of
code and we also have some binary images
included so we'll go ahead and create a
new JavaScript file and just zoom in a
bit we'll just call this the workflow
script and we'll start off by defining
some global variables that we're going
to be using throughout the script the
first one we're gonna set equal to fade
seconds and this is simply going to be
how long our video and audio fade in and
outs are going to be that way we don't
have to go into the code and modify it a
bunch we can just set up a variable
ahead of time and that will apply to all
of them so by default I'll just set this
to one second because that's a pretty
standard fade time and then we're also
going to create two arrays one called
our opacity values which is going to
contain two values basically the values
that we want to fade from so our opacity
change will be from 0 to 100 and then
we'll also create one for our audio
values and this is going to be our audio
levels of which range we want them to be
in by default I believe zero audio is
negative 48 DB and then want to go up to
zero decibels all right and the next
part I'm not going to show you how to do
because I have another video already
telling you how which you can check out
a linked in the description but we're
going to be taking these binary images
that I've created and we're going to use
these as our UI so I'm just going to go
and paste those in here
and that should be good so these are
basically each of our buttons that are
going to be in our script and the reason
I'm using these rather than referring to
a location is so that you guys can use
them as well all right so now that we
have some basic variables and our icons
set up let's go ahead and create our
actual user interface so we'll start off
by defining our main window which is
going to be equal to a new window it's
gonna be a pallet window and we'll just
call this the workflow script with
undefined size and then we'll grab our
main window and we'll set the
orientation equal to column from top to
bottom then we'll create two groups one
for our fades and one for our delete
options so we'll create a new group
we'll just call our fade group which is
going to be the one on top with all the
fade options and this is going to be
equal to our main window and we're just
gonna add a group with undefined size
and we'll call it the fade group then
we'll grab our fade group and we'll set
the orientation to row from left to
right and then we need to go ahead and
add our buttons so we'll start off with
our fade in button but this was going to
be for video so we'll call it the video
fade in button and we'll set this equal
to our fade group and we're gonna add an
image with undefined size for the binary
icon we're gonna grab our video fade in
image and just paste that in there so
now just a check we're gonna grab our
main window Center its and grab our main
window and show its we go and run it you
can see we have our first icon working
successfully one thing I'm going to do
with our image here is I'm going to grab
it or video fade in button and I want to
make sure this size is restricted to say
25 by 25 so a nice square and we can
also add a help tip to this so we'll
grab our video fade in button and I'll
grab the help tip and we'll set that to
a string of text which the user will be
able to see for this we're just going to
say something like fade in the selected
layers
video bye and then we're gonna actually
add our fade seconds and then once a
seconds after it so it's basically gonna
say fade in the selected layer by check
what our fade seconds are seconds all
right so I'm going to grab these three
lines of code we just used here and I'm
going to paste them three times below
and let's go ahead and keep track of
these here the first one we're gonna
change to our video fade out button and
then we're going to change the video
fade in image to the video fade out
image and it will change the size and
the help tip and it'll say fade out
rather than in and then for the other
two we're going to set these equal to
audio fade in button and audio fade out
button and then over here we're going to
set this audio fade in button to our
audio fade in image and then the same
thing for this down here we'll change it
to audio fade out image and then we'll
also go ahead and change up the
variables here from video to audio all
right so now if we go ahead and run it
you can see we have our first row of
icons here and our help tips are working
properly we should change them a little
bit here by saying fade out and change
video to audio in these two now we're
going to want to set up our second group
which is going to be called our delete
group which is going to include deleting
the expressions keyframes effects etc
we'll set our delete group equal to our
main window and we're going to add a
group with undefined size and we'll call
this the delete group and just like the
previous group we're going to set the
orientation to row from the left to
right and now we can start off by doing
the delete key frames button so I'll
create a variable called
simply that delete keyframes button and
we'll set this equal to the elite group
now we're gonna add another image
undefined size and this time we're going
to grab our delete keyframes image and
just like before we're going to grab our
element and set the size to be a nice
square and then also set up the help tip
and this is just gonna say remove all
keyframes from selected layers then
again we're going to grab these three
lines here and paste them three times so
after the delete key frames button we're
going to add a delete expressions button
and we'll change the image source to
delete expressions image update these
the third button in this group is going
to be our delete effects button change
this to delete text image update these
and finally the last one is going to be
called the reset transform button and
change the image to reset transform
image all right so now if we run it we
have everything working well we have all
of our UI elements and now the only
thing left to do is add functionality to
these so with images we can't directly
reference them and call on click for
example audio fade-out button on click
what we actually need to do is grab it
and add an event listener and basically
what this is gonna do is add a listener
for any time we hover over or click on
it depending on what we specify so I'm
gonna go down below our UI show here and
the first thing I'm going to need to
grab are the first four buttons so I'll
grab our video fade in button our video
fade out button our audio fade in button
and our audio fade out button and for
each of these we're going to add an
event listener so what we'll do for this
is say dot add events listener and this
is typically going to require three
arguments the first one is what we do so
we'll go ahead and click and the handler
is the function we're going to run into
and the capture phase will just set to
false video fade in and out buttons and
the audio fade in and out buttons I want
to create two functions a fade in and
fade out function that can handle all
four just so we can minimize the amount
of code we're using so if I wanted to
say call fade in as a function we
actually can't pass an argument through
an event listener like this so what we
need to do in our second argument is
just type in function with parentheses
and we'll add our brackets and then
we'll bring this down here and anything
we put inside of here we can now call a
function and pass a value through so
we're going to say fade in and we want
to pass one value through here so inside
a fade in we're going to pass one
property through and this is just going
to be the property that we want to add
effects to or keyframe so for the video
Faden we're going to want to pass
through capacity and then what I'm gonna
do is copy and paste the add event
listener to these other three buttons
here so with a video we want opacity
video opacity but this one is fade out
and then with audio we want to pass
through audio levels and we'll paste
that here and change this to fade out so
now that we have our basic add event
listener set up for our first row here
let's go ahead and create our fade in
and fade out functions so I'll set up a
function underneath called fade in and
remember we're passing through a
property so we'll just call it that and
then the same with the fade out function
and passing through property as well so
to start off our fade in function I'm
going to check if we have any layers
selected first off so I'll put in an if
statements
we're gonna actually reference a
function here called lair check and
we're gonna check the link if it's less
than one and if the length of lair check
is less than one we're just gonna say
please select at least one layer and
return false to get out of this
so lair check is just going to be
something we reference to check how many
selected layers there are it's going to
be super simple so we'll create a
function called lair check and we're
simply going to say variable called
selected layers is equal to app project
active item or the active comp and the
selected layers selected layers will
basically return an array of all the
selected layers in a composition so if
we did it right now we would see we have
three selected layers from index 0 to 2
then we're simply just going to return
our selected layers so first we're going
to run layer check it's going to return
our selected layers if we have less than
one layer selected or none we're going
to tell the user to select a layer if
not we're just going to say else and
this is going to be our actual
functionality here so inside of here I'm
going to create a variable called layers
which will set equal to AB dot Project
active item and again our selected
layers and then we're going to run a for
loop through this array of layers so
we'll grab a bar called I will set it
equal to 0 or the first index of an
array and for I is less than our layers
length increment I by 1 and now we need
to grab the property that we pass
through here so we'll go ahead and say
variable this property is equal to our
current indexed layer and we'll grab the
property called property because we're
passing through opacity or audio levels
this is going to set this property equal
to our layer that we currently have
selected and the property called either
opacity or audio levels and now we're
going to add an if statement or two of
them to check our property
actually is so I'll put in two if
statements here in the first one we're
going to check if this property is equal
to opacity and in the second one will
say this property is equal to audio
levels so if it's equal to one of these
what are we going to do if it's equal to
opacity we're going to grab our property
here this property which in this case
would be equal to opacity and we're
going to set up a set of values at times
function now this is a function that
requires two arguments the first of
which is an array of times and the
second of which is an array of values so
this is where our global variable
opacity values or audio values is going
to come in handy so we'll go ahead and
create two spaces of arrays here and in
the first one again we want our x so if
we're fading in or in the fade in
function if we're fading in we want two
points that have keyframes the first of
which is going to be at the start time
or is zero seconds and the second
keyframe needs to be our fade seconds or
one second later
so they fade seconds and then in the
second array we're going to be putting
in our values so we'll say our opacity
values index is zero which we set up as
zero and then the second one is a
hundred so I'll say opacity values index
one so just to recap what this is doing
is we're going through each of the
layers we have selected we're going to
set this property equal to opacity or
audio levels depending on which button
we click and then if it's opacity we're
going to set the opacity values at times
or setup keyframes at the time 0 and 1
in this case for our fade seconds and
the values are going to be zero to a
hundred so basically fading from zero to
100% opacity all right now let's set
this up for the audio levels
we'll go and grab this property and
again we're going to set values at times
and same thing we're going to want to
have to erase here 1 for x and 1 for the
values it's going to be the same for the
x here just zero in faith seconds for
the values is going to be a bit
different with opacity values we can
just pass through one value 0 or 100 but
with audio levels it's a little bit
different for each value that we pass
through here we actually want to values
we want one for the left audio and one
for the right audio so what we'll do is
inside of the second argument of
brackets here I'm going to add in other
brackets and we'll set this equal to
audio values index 0 comma audio values
index is 0 which is basically going to
set the first keyframe equal to negative
48 decibels on the left and right
channels then after the second one here
go ahead and add a comma and another set
of brackets in this one we're just going
to say audio values index 1 and the
audio values index 1 so this is going to
go in at 0 seconds and 1 second set the
first keyframe equal to 0 set the first
keyframe equal to negative 48 decibels
on both channels and then set the second
keyframe equal to zero decibels on both
channels alright so now that we have our
fade in function all finished up we can
basically just copy and paste all this
into our fade-out function and just
change a few things so the only thing we
really need to change are the set values
at times properties so to do this we're
going to change it up a bit instead of
starting with 0 we're going to go ahead
and grab our current layer layers eye
and we're going to grab the out point -
our fade seconds and then the second
keyframe is just going to be our current
layer in our array we have selected and
the out point and then we're just going
to reverse the indices of these opacity
values
rather than going from zero to a hundred
percent going from a hundred percent to
zero so we'll add index one and then
index is zero so for this property I set
values at time we're basically going to
the end of our layer here and
subtracting the amount of seconds which
should fade it appropriately and we're
gonna want to do the same thing for our
audio levels here so I'll grab our
current layer selected grab the out
point and subtract the fade seconds and
then just grab the current layer index
and output and the same thing with this
we're going to reverse it from indexes
zero to one and index one to zero
all right so let's go ahead and run this
in after-effects and see how it's
working and one thing I did mess up on
the if statements here checking this
property we actually want to check the
property argument we passed through here
and we'll also want to update this in
the fade-out function so now if we go
ahead and run this here select a layer
or two and click on fade in ignore these
alerts now if we go into the opacity of
the two layers you can see we have a
nice fade occurring all right so the
last thing we need to do is to set up
functionality for the second row of
things we have so what I'm gonna do is
below all of our event listeners I'm
going to add four more and this time we
can actually just have one line event
listeners because we don't need to pass
any arguments through so the first thing
I'll do is I'll grab my delete key
frames button and I'll add an event
listener we'll change the event name to
D click the handler for the first one is
going to be delete keys and again false
for the third argument and we can go
ahead and paste this three times here
change this to the delete expressions
button this one to the daily effects
button and the last one to reset
transform and then for the functions we
got delete keys delete expressions
delete effects and reset transform so
now finally let's go ahead and implement
last functionality into this script so
we can have our workflow script done so
I'm going to start setting up my
functions here call one delete keys
delete expressions delete effects and
reset transform alright so in the actual
script that I originally created the
functions that we're about to code are
rather complex because when I went in to
delete the keys or delete the
expressions I wanted to make sure that
there was no key frames or expressions
on save the effects but in this tutorial
we're just going to be programming them
for the basic transform values if you
want to check out how you can go through
the effects or any other properties just
check out the code or ask some questions
in the comments and I should be able to
help you out so first thing we're gonna
do is actually set up the easiest one
here which is reset transform and to
reset our transform I want to grab our
lair check really quick which we're
going to want in every one of these
functions so if we don't have a layer
selected till the user - if not then
just like before we're going to set a
variable called layers equal to our app
top project our active comp and our
array of selected layers and again like
before we're gonna loop through that
array by saying a variable equal to zero
and variables less than a layers dot
length and increment by one up now we
can go ahead and reset our transform
values we'll grab our layers and a
current index property we'll start off
with position and we're gonna set the
value equal to something and this is
going to require two arguments an x and
a y basically and to reset the position
value you basically need to divide the
comp width and height divided by two and
that will give you the basically default
position value so for the X I'll grab
our active item which is equal to our
comp and we're gonna grab the width
divided by two and then for the height
or also
grab the active comm and we're gonna
grab the height divided by two now I can
go ahead and paste this a few more times
in here to get the other values so we
have scale rotation opacity and Anchor
Point let's go ahead and fill those in
here all right so for the default scale
we'll also need two values and usually
the default scale is just a hundred by a
hundred the default opacity requires one
value so I'll set it equal to 100 and
make sure you get rid of those brackets
default rotation is also going to be
zero and the anchor point is going to be
the same as the position alright let's
go ahead and move up here to the delete
effects again I'm going to paste our
layer check in here I'm sure there's a
more efficient way but this works just
fine for now so inside of delete effects
if we actually have some layers selected
we're again going to grab our layers and
set that equal to our active item and
selected layers and I'm just gonna copy
this loop because we're going to be
looping through the same thing here
inside of our loop we'll set being a
variable called Nam effects which is
going to be the number of effects for
the current selected layer this is just
going to be equal to current layered
index effects and the number of
properties of the number of effects
basically then inside of this for loop
we'll create another one and this time
we're going to be running through our
actual effects so create a variable E
and we're going to set that equal to our
num effects we're actually going to
increment downwards so while a is
greater than or equal to zero
decrement a by one and the reason we're
going to do this is if we had an effect
applied here or had a couple applied
here if we started at index one and
deleted it and then we try to go to
index two there is no another index it's
actually just index one but if we start
at index two delete it and then go down
to index one we can delete everything
properly without running into
shoes so simply inside of here we're
going to grab our indexed layers object
here and we're going to grab effect II
and simply remove it and that's actually
it for the delete effects function so
let's move on to the delete expressions
function we'll add in our layer check
and for loop just like before and make
sure we add our closing brackets here so
now inside of our delete expressions
we're actually just going to grab this
down here with all of our transform
values paste it in here and instead of
set value we just want to set dot
expression equal to an empty string and
I'll go ahead and paste that for these
other values here and again if you want
to go ahead and delete expressions or
key frames from your effects or say
audio levels or something like that
check out the referenced file and that
has all the information in there so
that's actually it for the delete
expressions function there so let's
finish off by getting rid of those pesky
key frames I'm going to start off by
pasting all of our layer check
information in here and again closing
the brackets and for this we're
basically going to go through each
transform property check if it has any
key frames and if it does go into a
function called delete these keys so
what we're going to do inside of our for
loop here we're gonna have a bunch of if
statements the first of which is going
to be checking if our current layer and
the property position if the number of
keys in this property is greater than
zero so basically if it has any keys
we're gonna run the function delete to
these keys and we're gonna pass two
values through one is our property name
so this case position and the other is
our layer so inside of delete these keys
we're going to say property and layer
which is what we're passing through here
and inside of here we're gonna set up a
variable called these keys and this is
just going to be a number to check how
many keys we have so so this equal to
our layer
property that we imported and the number
of keys and then we're just going to use
these keys inside of our for loop so
just like when we deleted our effects
we're going to want to decrement instead
of increment or for loop so we'll say
var I is equal to these keys and for I
is greater than zero we're going to
decrement I and then inside of our for
loop we're simply going to say layer
property and again our property we
imported through arguments and we're
going to remove our key with index of I
so let's recap of what delete Keys does
here we're gonna run through all of our
selected layers first we're going to
check does our position of property have
any keys if it does the number of keys
it has is going to be greater than zero
so let's go ahead and run delete these
keys will pass through position for the
property and our current layer then
inside of delete these keys we're going
to basically loop through the number of
key frames and our property and remove
each one now finally to finish up the
script I'm going to copy and paste this
if statement a few times and instead of
position will say scale opacity anchor
points and rotation all right so let's
check out our script in after-effects
and see how well it's working for us go
ahead and run it in after-effects and
the first thing I'm going to do is go
ahead and delete our key frames here as
you can see it got rid of our opacity
keyframes and I want to reset the
opacity to a hundred so I'll reset our
transform values there we go now if I
select all my layers bring up the
opacity and the audio levels I can go
ahead and fade in and out both of them
and just like that we can quickly edit
our video and create a custom workflow
that works best for us all right guys
that's it for this video I hope you
enjoyed the reason I made this tutorial
is because I've been making a lot of
work closed groups for people and
thought it would be useful to share that
knowledge with you guys so be sure to
hit the thumbs up button or smash if you
enjoyed the video hit the subscribe
button and the Bell icon to be notified
of when our new videos come out you have
any suggestions for future videos be
sure to leave them in the comments down
below and we'll see you guys next time